GIT:

Branching strategy:

We have multiple branches like depending upon the environment, like master branch which will be related to the production and we have deployment
branch, so in deployment branch the coders will write the code and commit them. we have feature branches for any new features to be added and for
any feature updates. we also have the release branch where we will be pushing the code into release branch from the master and we will be
pushing it to the prod environment and we also have hotfix branch where if their are any incidents and any immediate hotfix need to be created
we will be creating the hotfix branch and we will be pusing it to the prod environment using master branch. So totally we have 5 branches, master
release, hotfix, developer and feature branch.;/3

Deployment rollback

Git merge:

Git merge will be automatically merging the two branches and it will be merging in the chronological order like in a timely basis the commit
will be merged together.

Git rebase:

Git rebase we will have more control like i can set the order like, the order history like how it commits with the merge to the current branch.
so in Git rebase we will have more control and it will be adding the commits to the head of my current branch.

Git tag:

The main function of tagging is to capture a point in a Git history that marks the release version. Tags will not change. once the tag is created, 
it will also have no history of commits. For example, tagging a commit with release version 3.0 means that commit is the final commit before the 
launch of the 3.0 version of the software.
Annotated and light-weight are the two type of tags available.

Git fetch:

git fetch will only update your local repository, we need to use checkout or merge command to update it to our working copy.

Git pull:

git pull is a combination of git fetch + git merge, it will update your both local repo and make changes in working directory

Git clone:

git clone is used for downloading exactly what is currently working on the remote server repository and saving it in my
machine's folder where the project is placed.

how you switch between branches:

usually we can use git checkout and brach name to switch to the particular branch, we can also create a new branch and switch over to it by
passing a parameter -b. so when i mention git checkout -b branch name it will create a branch and takes me into that branch.

Git cherrypick:

It is used to select only a particular commit and merge it with the current branch. I can use
"GIT cherrypick Commit Id" and this will merge the commit to our current branch.

Fork:

using Git fork i can take a copy of the complete repository from one Git hub account to my account. I can work and make any changes which wil
not reflect in the original persons repository.

Reset:

In Git reset we have 3 options, Git reset --hard, Git reset --mix and Git reset --soft. Git reset will delete the commit and also the working
directory. The index will also be deleted. when I use Git reset --hard it will be deleting the commits.

revert: 

Git reveret will create a new commit like it will be reverting the changes and creating a new commit.

Jenkins:

how to install jenkins

what is master slave configuration:

A Master-Slave configuration is used to manage the distributed builds. The machine where I install Jenkins will be my Jenkins master and that 
will run in port 8080 by default. On slave machines, I will install a program called Agent using JVM. Jenkins slaves connect to the Jenkins 
master using the Java Network Launch Protocol. Mainly master will schedule the build jobs and dispatch builds to the slaves for execution.
It will also monitor the slaves and fetch the build response of the build performed from slaves and it will show in the console output.
To connect the slave machine to the master, I need to go to the slave machine and go the jenkins server URL
then go to Manage jenkins -> Mangae nodes, click on the slave machine. Then I will give launch to launch the agent from browser on slave.
Then we can run the program.

https://treehozz.com/what-is-master-slave-configuration-in-jenkins


types of pipeline and diff between them

Recently used common plugins in my project

Git
Maven
Sonarqube
SSH Build Agent
Deploy to Container
Role based Strategy Authorisation
Delivery Pipeline view
Parameterised Trigger Plugin
Declarative Pipeline

how to integrate jenkins with maven and sonar
Upstream and downstream jobs
parameterised trigger
what is post build action
how to add or create users in jenkins
what is backup plugin
how to create and trigger build jobs
environment variable in jenkins
multibranch pipeline

Ansible:

what type of playbooks you have written
copy and fetch module
ansible config file and default path
what is inventory types and diff between them
modules in ansible
task in ansible
play and playbooks in ansible
what is roles and what is jinja2 template
what is vault
what is tags
notifiers and handler

Terraform:

What is provider
what is variables
terraform validate
terraform FMT
terraform plan
terraform apply
terraform destroy
modules in terraform
workspace
functions
state file and types
terraform recreate

Docker:

what is docker
docker basic commands
what is image
waht is container
entrypoint and cmd
diff betn copy and add
types of docker n/w
back up of existing container
docker hub
docker top and inspect
docker compose
docker swarm
docker volumes

K8's:

what is K8's
waht is namespace
waht is replicaset
waht is secrets
what is cofig map
what is master node and worker node components
waht is node selector and node affinity
what is pvc and pv
types of services
what is deployment, replicaset and stateful set
waht is r band








Jenkins:

jenkins file:

Jenkinsfile is basically a text file where we can write pipeline code to define the Jenkins pipeline. It can be checked into Git along with our 
project source code. So every application will have its own Jenkinsfile to do the build, test & deploy. 
There are two ways of writing a Jenkinsfile – One is called Scripted Pipeline, the syntax for pipeline is strictly Groovy and it starts with the 
word node. 
Another is Declarative pipeline which is advanced and has more advantages over scripted pipeline and this will start with the work Pipeline.


Executors: 

Executors decides how many jobs can run in jenkins parallely at a time,so we can set up the no of executors based on the requirement but by default 
there will be only 2 executors.  e.g if I have 3 build and I have 2 executors and if am building all 3 jobs simultaneously the first 2 jobs will be build and
the 3rd one will be in build queue till the first 2 builds are complete.

Shared library:

https://www.lambdatest.com/blog/use-jenkins-shared-libraries-in-a-jenkins-pipeline/

Jenkins shared library is where we will have a common pipeline code in the Version control system that we can use in any no. of pipelines just by
referencing it. Even multiple teams can use the same library for their pipelines. This is used to avoid code duplication and for code
reusability. The shared libraries will be placed in the central repo and can be called using a function when writing the jenkins file. The shared
library repository will have 3 directories src, vars and resources.
Vars - will hold the global shared library code that can be called from pipeline, it has all the library files with (.) groovy extension
Src - it is regular java source code directory
resources - will contain all non groovy files required for the pipeline

Jenkins port change:

Under /var/lib/jenkins we have jenkins.config file, in that config file I need to search for the default port and I can update the port no to the
desired one. Then we need to restart jenkins for the change to get implemented.

what will you do when a build fails in Jenkins:

we can check on the logs and I can do the exact troubleshooting, we also have build failure analyzer so this plugin analysis the cause of the
failed jobs and presents the cause of the build. So using the build failure analyzer it can check for all the failovers and causes for the build
failure from the scratch. so with this particular plugin I can give the description and the parent ID and their text source where the build log
has to get generated. So based upon the above plugin it will trobleshoot the jobs and I can get the information of failovers like it will pass
information, errors, classes, check style errors, style error these kind of things.


Jenkins pipeline types:

There are two types of pipeline: scripted and declarative pipeline




Terraform backend:

we have s3 backend, so it is a backend.tf file we can create the resources and object name and it the backend.tf file I can specify the resources
path and the object name. So the remote state file will get stored inside s3 instead of storing it in local repository we keep them in s3 and we
lock them using dynamo db. So it is protected by being accessed by multiple developers and I can protect my resources information in my state
file about the infrastructure.
.










